                            Grabchars 1.9

		Copyright (c) 1988, 1989, 1990, Dan Smith

		daniel@island.uu.net dansmith@well.sf.ca.us
			unicom!daniel@pacbell.com

What this is:

	"grabchars" gets one or more keystrokes from the user, without
requiring them to hit return.  It was written to make all types of shell
scripts more interactive.

	I know that it works fine on Suns running SUN OS 3.2-4.0.3,
an Apollo 4500 running 10.2, and a Vax 11/750 running Mt. Xinu 4.3
BSD.  System V support is there, except for the erase routine.
I'd like to see support for this on VMS, MS-DOS, OS/2, and
whatever else you find yourself using :-)  Tell a friend, send
me patches.

	You'll find uses for this in all sorts of places.  A prime
candidate is in your .login file, it's easy to use this to select different
options.  I've provided a "demo" csh script which runs through many of the
options.  For the most part, grabchars can replace the use of "$<" in
csh scripts and "read" in sh scripts, and offer filtering, timeouts, and
default answers.  I've also provided a directory that will show
you an simple way to generate interactive scripts: you lay out
the menu, and it writes a script based on the menu - after that
you just fill in the details.

Putting this together:

	Run Config; it will figure out where you might want to
put the executable and the man page.  It will also put you into an
editor with the Makefile, and then it will run a "make clean",
"make depend", and a "make release".  You will need getopt (3)
to compile this program.  If you're not sure if you have this, try
"nm /lib/libc.a | grep getopt".  Get a Public Domain version if you
don't (write me if you get really stuck, I have it).

Usage: (see the man page for more...)

	grabchars			gets one keystroke
	grabchars -b			output to stdout and stderr
	grabchars -c<valid characters>  only <valid chars> are returned
	grabchars -d<char(s)>		default char or string to return
	grabchars -e			output to stderr instead of stdout
	grabchars -f			flush any previous input
	grabchars -h			help screen
	grabchars -n<number>		number of characters to read
	grabchars -p<prompt>		prompt to help user
	grabchars -q<prompt>		prompt to help user (through stderr)
	grabchars -r			RETURN exits (use with -n)
	grabchars -s			silent, just return status
	grabchars -t<seconds>		timeout after <seconds>
	grabchars -E			erase/kill character processing

	examples: (values to arguments can be in the same word or the next one)

	grabchars -caeiou	 or
	grabchars -c aeiou		get one of the vowels
	grabchars -c i			get the letter 'i'
	grabchars '-penter a letter '	print the prompt "enter a letter "
	grabchars '-qenter a letter '	print the prompt ('q' for question)
					"enter a letter " through stderr...
	grabchars -n4			get four characters
	grabchars -t2			timeout after two seconds

	print a prompt and grab three characters...
	grabchars -p 'enter three characters >> ' -n 3

	get two numbers with a ten second timeout...
	grabchars -c 0123456789 -n2 -t10

	note that arguments like "-n4" or "-n 4" are handled the same way

	grabchars -h			will give a usage screen...

Legal paragraph:

	Use and copy Grabchars.  Please send me any modifications
that you make so that I may post official patches.  Don't remove my
headers.  Don't say you wrote it.  I am not responsible for mishaps
arising out of the use of this program, on the other hand, I haven't
run into any problems with this.  Lastly, do not use any part of
grabchars in any product for profit (electronic, paper, or any other
media) without obtaining my written permission.

Patches and things like that:

	"Help! Save The World!" (LW)...if you make any modifications
to grabchars, please send me a diff suitable for use with the patch program.
I don't want ten different versions of this running around.  The
TODO file outlines some ideas I have for grabchars.

Where to reach me:

	Dan Smith
	Island Graphics
	4000 Civic Center Drive
	San Rafael, Ca 94903
	+1 (415) 491 1000 (w), 491 0402 (fax)

	daniel@island.uu.net or	
	{pixar,grenada,ucbvax!ucbcad,unicom,well,sun,uunet}!island!daniel

	unicom!daniel@pacbell.com

	{apple,lll-crg}!well!dansmith

