Java[tm] Smart Ticket Sample Application 2.0 Early Access
Release Notes

CONTENTS

- Overview
- Early Access
- User Documentation
- What's New
- Known Issues
- Sending Feedback

OVERVIEW

The Java Smart Ticket Sample Application is a sample wireless
enterprise application using Java technology. In this movie ticketing
application, customers may purchase movie tickets using a mobile
device such as a cell phone, palmtop, or two-way pager.

The sample application is a client-server application. The client part
uses the Mobile Information Device Profile (MIDP) of the Java 2
Platform, Micro Edition (J2ME[tm]), and the server part runs on a Java
2 Platform, Enterprise Edition (J2EE[tm]) application server.

Developers wishing to learn more about the design principles behind
the Java Smart Ticket Sample Application should visit the Java
BluePrints for Wireless Web site at:

http://java.sun.com/blueprints/wireless/

This sample application is intended to be educational. Some
functionality may be missing or incomplete.

EARLY ACCESS

This version is distributed for early access. Some functionality may
be missing or incomplete.

Note: The 2.0 Early Access version of the sample application uses
the J2EE server code from version 1.2. So, if you already have version
1.2, you do not need to redeploy the J2EE part of the application if
it is already deployed.

USER DOCUMENTATION

Please consult the user documentation (installation instructions,
etc.) in the directory {smart_ticket.dir}/docs/user/, where
{smart_ticket.dir} is the root directory of the sample application
bundle.

WHAT'S NEW

In version 2.0 of the application, a MIDP 2.0 user interface was
added. Because version 2.0 is distributed for early access, this user
interface is not final.

In version 1.2 of the application, a disconnected mode of operation
was added, providing the following enhancements:

- Downloading (persistence) of movie listings to enable browsing
offline

- Caching of movie listings to speed up browsing online

- Synchronization of movie ratings so that users may enter movie
ratings from different devices or different types of clients
(e.g. mobile devices, desktops, laptops)

KNOWN ISSUES

This sample application is intended to be educational. Some
functionality may be missing or incomplete.

Known issues for this release include the following:

- The application is internationalized but not localized.

- For the application to filter theaters by ZIP code, you must use the
ZIP code 95130 or 95054 when you create your account.

- Account information needs to be synchronized on both the client and
server parts. If you ever have problems accessing user information,
remove the record store data on the client side, re-populate the
database on the server side, and then re-enter your account
information the next time you start the application, as if you were
using it for the very first time.

Known issues for this early access release include the following in
particular:

- Error checking and reporting for account setup is buggy and
incomplete.

- Internationalization is not fully implemented.

- The seating plan UI is slightly buggy.

- Many preferences are ignored.

- The "Exit" button does not exit the application.

- Only the last-modified-wins synchronization strategy is used.

SENDING FEEDBACK

Please send any feedback on this release to
javablueprintswireless-feedback@sun.com.

Copyright 2001, 2002, 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
